modules/slugs/README.md, before:

# Module: Slugs

Adds support for permalink (slug/URL) translations to qTranslate-XT.

This module was created from [qtranslate-slug](https://github.com/not-only-code/qtranslate-slug) plugin v1.1.18, integrated as [a module](https://github.com/qtranslate/qtranslate-xt/pull/1060).
For more details see the discussion [Include qtranslate slug into -XT](https://github.com/qtranslate/qtranslate-xt/issues/671).

## Frequently Asked Questions

### It works with posts and pages, but with other content type?
This plugin allows to translate slugs of: posts, pages, custom post types, categories, tags and custom taxonomies.

### Do I have to configure anything?
Enable the *Slugs* module from qTranslate options (*Settings/Languages*).
If you want to translate also the base permastructs (ex. *category*, *tag*, etc), go in the *Slugs* options:
- Set the base permastructs for **post types** and **taxonomies** (If you setup a base permastruct for *categories* or *tags* in *Settings/Permalinks*, these will be overwritten by the translated ones).
- Save settings and that's all!

### I get a 404 error, what can I do?
In the admin go to *Settings/Permalinks* or *Settings/Languages* (qTranslate) options and save.

### How to get the current url in a specific language?
You can use `qts_get_url()`.

## Contributors

Original plugin
* [Carlos Sanz García](https://github.com/not-only-code)
* [Pedro de Carvalho](https://github.com/LC43/)
* [Risto Niinemets](https://github.com/RistoNiinemets)
* [Pedro Mendonça](https://github.com/pedro-mendonca)
* [codep0et](https://github.com/codep0et)
* [Giraldi Maggio](https://github.com/bedex78)
* [jinoOM](https://github.com/jinoOM)
* [Juanfran](https://github.com/juanfran-granados)
* [Arild](https://github.com/arildm)
* [Rafa Aguilar](https://github.com/rafitaFCB)
* [Bastian Heist](https://github.com/beheist)
* [John Clause](https://github.com/johnclause)

Integration into qTranslate-XT
* [Giovanni Cascione](https://github.com/spleen1981)
* [HerrVigg](https://github.com/herrvigg)

Commit message:

Complete slugs FAQ for QTS migration (#1171)

modules/slugs/README.md, after:

# Module: Slugs

Adds support for permalink (slug/URL) translations to qTranslate-XT.

This module was created from [qtranslate-slug](https://github.com/not-only-code/qtranslate-slug) plugin v1.1.18, integrated as [a module](https://github.com/qtranslate/qtranslate-xt/pull/1060).
For more details see the discussion [Include qtranslate slug into -XT](https://github.com/qtranslate/qtranslate-xt/issues/671).

## Frequently Asked Questions

### It works with posts and pages, but with other content type?
This plugin allows to translate slugs of: posts, pages, custom post types, categories, tags and custom taxonomies.

### Do I have to configure anything?
Enable the *Slugs* module from qTranslate options (*Settings/Languages*).

If you want to translate also the base permastructs (ex. *category*, *tag*, etc), go in the *Slugs* options:
- Set the base permastructs for **post types** and **taxonomies** (If you setup a base permastruct for *categories* or *tags* in *Settings/Permalinks*, these will be overwritten by the translated ones).
- Save settings and that's all!

### I've been using the QTS plugin, how can I find the existing slugs?
Enable the *Slugs* module, go in the "Import" settings of qTranslate and import QTS data.
The dry-run mode allows to test the import and see the number of rows changed before updating the database.

**Attention!** Do not uninstall QTS before migrating data to qTranslate, it deletes data permanently.
Once the migration is done, the data is not be visible in QTS anymore and the QTS plugin can be uninstalled.

### I get a 404 error, what can I do?
In the admin go to *Settings/Permalinks* or *Settings/Languages* (qTranslate) options and save.

### How to get the current url in a specific language?
You can use `qts_get_url()`.

## Contributors

Original plugin
* [Carlos Sanz García](https://github.com/not-only-code)
* [Pedro de Carvalho](https://github.com/LC43/)
* [Risto Niinemets](https://github.com/RistoNiinemets)
* [Pedro Mendonça](https://github.com/pedro-mendonca)
* [codep0et](https://github.com/codep0et)
* [Giraldi Maggio](https://github.com/bedex78)
* [jinoOM](https://github.com/jinoOM)
* [Juanfran](https://github.com/juanfran-granados)
* [Arild](https://github.com/arildm)
* [Rafa Aguilar](https://github.com/rafitaFCB)
* [Bastian Heist](https://github.com/beheist)
* [John Clause](https://github.com/johnclause)

Integration into qTranslate-XT
* [Giovanni Cascione](https://github.com/spleen1981)
* [HerrVigg](https://github.com/herrvigg)
